---
layout: post
title: CTFlearn 120 - RSA Noob
summary: Write-up on CTFlearn's challenge 120 - Simple maths...
date: 2020-05-28
author: Noxtal
categories: writeups
thumbnail:  ctflearn
tags:
 - ctflearn
 - crypto
 - medium
 - rsa
---

 Write-up on CTFlearn's challenge 120 - RSA noob. Simple maths...
 Challenge author: intelagent.

-----

# Challenge
Crypto, 60 points
> These numbers were scratched out on a prison wall. Can you help me decode them? https://mega.nz/#!al8iDSYB!s5olEDK5zZmYdx1LZU8s4CmYqnynvU_aOUvdQojJPJQ

# Solution
Let's download the file from the Mega link and take a look at its content to see what we are facing.

> rsanoob (1).txt
```
e: 1
c:9327565722767258308650643213344542404592011161659991421
n: 245841236512478852752909734912575581815967630033049838269083
```

From the name of the flag and the values it contains, we can know this is an [RSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSA_(cryptosystem)) encryption challenge.

RSA (Rivest-Shamir-Adleman) is an asymmetric cryptosystem (cipher) widely used for secure data transmissions. The main algorithm behind it is based on simple maths. Let's take a simple look at it.

Each "user" of the RSA cryptosystem owns 3 values. 

> *n*, the modulus, which is public.<br/>
> *e*, the exponent, which is also public.<br/>
> *d*, the private exponent, which is, unlike the others, private.

Let's say we have two users, Alice and Bob. They each have a unique *n* and *d*, but their *e* is the same, shared by the system they are using. Bob wants to send a message to Alice, so he performs this calculation:

`c = m^e mod n`
Where *m* is the message he wants to send and *n* is Alice's public modulus. 

Alice receives that message and performs the decryption calculation below.
`m = c^d mod n`
*c* being the ciphertext Bob send her and *d* being her private key.

The magic behind those operations comes from the process to generate the keys, often called *keygen*. I won't go in much details about that because it involves quite complex maths that are not required to understand that challenge.

Learn more about RSA [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSA_(cryptosystem)#Operation).

## The Attack
In our situation, the variables which ables us to exploit are *e*. Remember the encryption calculation, the message is raised to the power of e. If *e* is 1, as it is in this challenge, the operation can be reduced to that.

`c = m mod n`

That means that if the message *m* was less than *n*, then the ciphertext is exactly equal to the message.

Let's check that with python (`python3`).
First, we need to do is to import *binascii*, it will be useful later on.
> \>\>\> import binascii<br/>

Second, get the hexadecimal value of the ciphertext. The last `[2:]` just strips out the "0x" at the beginning of the hex value.
> \>\>\> hex(9327565722767258308650643213344542404592011161659991421)[2:]<br/>
> '61626374667b6233747465725f75705f793075725f657d'<br/>

Finally, copy that string (with the quotes) and pass in the [binascii.unhexlify](https://docs.python.org/3.8/library/binascii.html) function. That function will take a string out of out hexadecimal value.
> \>\>\> binascii.unhexlify('61626374667b6233747465725f75705f793075725f657d')<br/>

Voilà, you are now supposed to get the flag! Don't forget to remove the b'' format characters before entering it.

